1.2 Why Meaning #3 ≠ Meaning #2
Some philosophers and linguists have held that for:
(1)	“Snow is white”
to mean that snow is white is for it to be the case that, in uttering “snow is white,” what people mean is that snow is white. This view, duly generalized, is that for a sentence S to have meaning M is for it to be the case that, in uttering S, people to mean M.[1]
This position is false. There are many sentences that have determinate meanings even though they’ve never been uttered before and, therefore, no one as of yet has ever meant anything by them. The sentence:
(2)	“The cube root of three is Sir Lawrence Olivier’s favorite irrational number between one and four”
has a determinate meaning, even though that sentence never probably has been uttered. Thus, meaning in the linguistic sense is not in all cases identical
 
with meaning in the psychological sense.
But a stronger point is warranted. Let’s say that P1 and P2 are the propositions meant by (1) and (2), respectively. In saying that (1) means P1 and that (2) means P2, we are not using the word “means” equivocally. Both occurrences of “means” in the last sentence denote the same relationship.
Thus, the relationship that (1) bears to its meaning is the same as the relationship that (2) bears to its meaning. Given that, as we saw, (2)’s having P2 for its meaning isn’t identical with P2’s being what people mean in
uttering (2), it follows that (1)’s having P1 for its meaning isn’t identical with P1’s being what people mean in uttering (1). Of course, what we just said
about (1) and (2) can be said of any other sentence. So even if what people mean in uttering a given sentence happens to coincide with its literal meaning, what it is for sentence S to have proposition P for its literal meaning isn’t for people to mean P in uttering S.
Psychological meaning presupposes linguistic meaning. What a person means when uttering a given sentence is a function of, among other things, his beliefs as to what that sentence already means. You must believe that “snow is white” means snow is white if, intending to speak sincerely and literally, you say “snow is white” with the intention of getting it across that snow is white. If you think that “snow is white” means grass is green, you cannot, if your intention is to speak sincerely and literally, believe that “snow is white” means snow is white.
Of course, you could know full well what “snow is white” in fact means, but use that sentence to get across something that has nothing to do with the color of snow. Knowing what “snow is white” actually means, you might utter that sentence with the intention of getting it across that the government is controlling our thoughts with alpha waves. And, depending on the circumstances, that could be precisely what an utterance of that sentence would convey.
